# Overview

This project is about understanding why Zerlaut/Di Volo and I get different fits for TF.

Relevant papers:
- [P1] Y. Zerlaut, S. Chemla, F. Chavane, and A. Destexhe, “Modeling mesoscopic cortical dynamics using a mean-field model of conductance-based networks of adaptive exponential integrate-and-fire neurons,” J Comput Neurosci, vol. 44, no. 1, pp. 45–61, Feb. 2018, doi: 10.1007/s10827-017-0668-2.
- [P2] M. di Volo, A. Romagnoni, C. Capone, and A. Destexhe, “Biologically Realistic Mean-Field Models of Conductance-Based Networks of Spiking Neurons with Adaptation,” Neural Computation, vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 653–680, Apr. 2019, doi: 10.1162/neco_a_01173.

Relevant repos:
- [R1] https://github.com/ModelDBRepository/234992/tree/master
    - this is a repo for [P1]
- [R2] https://github.com/ModelDBRepository/263236/tree/master
    - this is a repo for [P2]
- [MFT] MeanFieldTester code
    - this is my code 

### Data generation

- [R1] has steady state neural response data, code for generating data, and code for fitting TF
- Notebook `inspect_zerlaut2018_data.ipynb` checks the [R1] data
- Description of [R1] data (Zerlaut data):
    - 10s long simulations
    - Input grid is 10x10, with range of values in $[0,20] Hz$, with maximum output firing rate $30 Hz$
    - output frequency = len(spikes)/t.max()
        - i.e. takes the whole interval (regardless the level of adaptation, although it takes adaptation into account)!
    - nu_out_std = std over seeds, not variability over single simulation
        - is it possible though? std over an experiment? - would need r(t) not r
        - I compute it the same!
        - $V, g_e. g_i$ - these are time continuous, for these I can measure $\mu,\sigma$ over single experiment
- Data are generated by using Euler method for AdEx neuron equations.
    - script `./modeling_mesoscopic_dynamics/transfer_functions/tf_simulation.py` in [R1]
- In my data generation I use PyNN (NEST) for modelling the neuron and get the results
- Notebook also plots the neural data from [R1] and generated by [MFT], data looks very much close enough

- [R2] has only the fit parameters available and code for MF simulations


- folder `./zerlaut2018_data/` contains data downloaded directly from [R1]
- folder `./zerlaut2018_data_generated/` contains data generated directly by [R1] code (after correcting the errors in the code to verify the data)
- data in both folders are the same (it was to verify that the error in code was not the source of difference)

### TF fitting


- Notebook `inspect_zerlaut2018_tf_fitting.ipynb` checks the [R1] TF fitting
- fit from repo [R1] does not correspond to the one in the paper, and does not match to the script-made fit (which also does not match the paper)

- [R1] has an error in computing membrane fluctuation params ([R2] has it corrected)
- [R1] and [MFT] give similar membrane fluctuation params (relative difference is 1e-4 or smaller)
- When used to the same data [R1] and [MFT] still give different TF fit coefficients, but their error is similar (the TF curves match the data almost the same)
- TF fit in [R1] does not correspond to the data in [R1]
- TF implementations of [R1] and [MFT] give the same results with identical TF coefficients


- possible sources of difference
    - different units (thus the error in minimization algorithm are different, and also plays a role in above difference!)
    - different handling of division by 0 ([R1] globally adds +1e-9, [MFT] changes 0->+1e-9 value)
    - parameters are in the code [R1] and [MFT] loads them from a file. There are differences between params ($G_l, C_m$) on the level of float precision (~2e-16)


### Resulting thoughts and ideas

- I do not see the reason to stick to the paper fit
    - I do not have corresponding data to verify
- Important features
    - [MFT] with provided TF coefficients give the same results as NeuroPSI repos
    - I can replicate [P2] and [P1] steps and results (with my TF fit)
    - any new model with STP should reproduce [P1] and [P2] when STP turned off (sanity check)